Lovely Professional University (LPU) is a Private University situated on the outskirts of Jalandhar, Punjab. It is the largest single-campus university in India, with more than 30,000 students, over 4000 faculties and staff, offering more than 200 programs. Recognized by UGC and is also a member of AIU. The university is ranked high on various parameters by acclaimed bodies and is a recipient of various awards including the Best Private University Award by ASSOCHAM again in 2017, presented by Sh. Prakash Javadekar Union Minister of HRD, Govt. of India. NIRF 2018 (MHRD Government of India) has ranked LPU No. 2 in management on Outreach and Inclusivity parameter and ranked 38th overall. With internationally benchmarked curricula, innovative pedagogy, experiential learning, and 200+ foreign tie-ups for equitable and affordable quality education, the University is poised to establish itself as a Centre of Excellence in Research. 


LPUs Vision is To be a premier academic institution, recognized internationally for its contribution to industry and society through excellence in teaching, learning, research, internationalization, entrepreneurship and leadership.


LPUs Mission is 
To transform education through academic rigour, practical orientation and outcome based teaching
To develop and implement a relationship of cooperation between industry and academia
To undertake impactful research addressing local, national and global challenges
To prepare graduates to be lifelong learners with strong analytical and leadership skills
To develop global professionals and entrepreneurs with innovative spirit, tolerance and desire to make a difference to the society.




Founder Chairman of LPU is LATE SH. BALDEV RAJ MITTAL, an entrepreneur par excellence. Lovely Professional University is a humble tribute to perpetuate his quintessential existence. Chancellor of LPU is Mr. Ashok Mittal, Pro-Chancellor is Mrs. Rashmi Mittal and Vice-Chancellor is Ramesh Kanwar.




LPU offers enormous engineering courses in which Computer Science and Engineering, Mechanical engineering, Civil Engineering, Electronics and Communication Engineering and Biotech Engineering engineering is famous. Other famous course from 200 + course provided by the campus is MBA, Masters of Business Administration. B.Tech CSE focuses to provide engineering education in the field of Computer Science with evolving technologies and to produce self motivated, employable individuals to society. To pioneer education in Computer Science and Engineering, Mathematics and Sciences, to mould the overall personality of students. MBA in LPU focuses To be a globally recognized institution for creating leaders in the emerging areas of business. To transform the lives of our students and stakeholders by enriching learning experience, providing exposure to advanced areas of knowledge through research and reinforcing the commitment to human values.




MBA details
LPU's MBA placement is 95% and above.Over 100-150 companies come every year for MBA students. Minimum pacakge offered to MBA student is 4.5 LPA and went up according to student's knowledge and capabilities. Average package is 7-8 LPA in Mahindra and Amazon. Major Companies that come for MBA students are Colgate Palmolive, Hindustan Unilever, Godrej Consumer, SAP Labs, Asian Paints, Bajaj Allianz, Federal Bank,Moodys Analytics, Blue Star, Zomato,Berger Paints, Marico, Havells, Apollo Munich Health Insurance, CavinCare, Hetitch, Nerolac Paints, Oyo Rooms, S& P Global Market Intelligence, HDFC Bank, Swiggy,Kotak Mahindra Bank, Luminous Power, Bharti AXA, Decathlon Sports, Exide Industries, Emami, Eye-Q Vision, ITC Limited, Janalakshmai Financial Services, Kelloggs, MRF, Naukri, Moodys Analytics, WNS Global, Writer Corporation, Nivesh Group, OCWEN Financial, Practo, Redington, Transport Corporation of India, etc.
Heighest Pacakage offered to MBA student was of 24 LPA.
In the department of Management, the university offers, BBA(Hons.), Dual Degree BBA(Hons.) + MBA, Integrated BBA + MBA and Dual Degree BBA + MBA. LPU offers five specializations in the BBA program, thirteen specializations in the MBA program and fourteen specializations in MBA (Specialized) program.
Eligibility
Minimum Eligibility to apply for the Management program at the UG level is 60% aggregate marks in 10+2 with English. At the PG level, minimum eligibility to apply for the MBA program is 55% aggregate marks in Graduation.
Valid qualified scores of CAT/MAT/XAT/CMAT OR LPUNEST along with interview is compulsory to get admission.





CSE details
Among the best Colleges for Computer Science in Punjab, India, LPU School of Computer Science and Engineering encourages all-round development through industry adapted curriculum focusing on enhancing both technical skills and soft skills. Each year, our coders set the benchmark a step higher by securing placements in top international brands like Microsoft, Google and Apple.Recently LPU Engineering Student bags Rs 42 lakh Job in Microsoft. Final year B Tech Computer Science & Engineering student of Lovely Professional University, Tanya Arora has bagged Rs 42 lakh job offer from Microsoft. This is the highest job offer received by engineering fresher in the region for the year 2019. LPU students Mr.Karampuri Vivek, Mr.Manish Tolani and Mr Ashish Kaktan of School of Computer Science and Engineering are placed in Amazon at package of 28LPA for their expertise in the field of Artificial Intelligence
Fourteen of our young achievers bagged placement offers in one of the top notch product based company [Amazon] equaling a package of 6 LPA. They got the offer post a grueling series of rounds in which their algorithmic skills were put to test.
The multinational giant Bosch hired 42 computer science students post a series of rounds designed to test intricate knowledge of core computer science concepts. The avid performers were given a placement offer of 5 LPA and 24 more were selected for internship opportunities at Bosch.Around 242 students aligned with the discipline of Computer Science and Engineering received placement offers from top tech companies. Of these 130 students got offers from CTS and 112 students were offered a package of 3.4 LPA from Capgemini.

The University offers several specializations in B.Tech. and Integrated B.Tech + MBA program and B.Tech. (Hons.) and Integrated B.Tech + M.Tech. Additionally, the university also offers M.Tech program at the PG level.
Eligibility-The minimum eligibility to apply for the engineering program at UG level is 10+2 with minimum 60% marks in PCM, subject to qualifying LPUNEST.
Whereas, at the PG level the minimum eligibility to apply is a Bachelor’s degree in engineering with minimum 60% marks.




ECE details Almost 90% of student’s of ECE got placed in Reputed Companies like INFINEON(12 LAKHS PER ANNUM), Robert Bosch Engineering and Business Solutions(5 Lakhs Per Annum), Bosch Home Appliances Group(5 Lakhs per Annum), HPE(5 LPA), Trident Group(15 LPA), Think and Learn(9 LPA), Amazon, Wipro Alight Solutions, Sagacious IP, Cognizant, Cap-Gemini, Extra Marks Private Limited. Now the placements had already started for one-year internships of next year pass out(2020) students also like Juspay, Lead Squared, Bosch and Siemens Home Appliances.



BIOTECH details List of Few Companies in this Field for the placements of students like-
Practo technologies, Reliance Life science, Nestle, Immunoshop India Pvt. Ltd., Mumbai, Stellrix Consultancy Services Ltd, Jaipur, Life-cell international, Jaipur. etc