All Big companies come in LPU for placement and internship in 2019 are Maruti Suzuki, Infosys, Accenture, Fintech, Tata Project, Wipro, ICS, ITC, Capgemini, NCR, Microsoft, Google, Amazon, Cognizant Technology Solution, Hewlett Packard, Intel, Amazon,Tech Mahindra Limited, MAQ Software, Xerox India Limited, Meditab, Congnizant Technology Solutions, Yahoo,
IBM, Informatica, SAP, Bosch, Ashok Leyland, Voltas, Mercedes Benz, Honda, Daikin, Renault Nissan, Sony, Adobe, Virtusa, KPIT, Morgan Stanley, Hindustan Unilever Ltd, Trident Group, Infineon, KPMG, Colgate-Palmolive.


LPU Placements Highlight in 2019
Number of Companies visited LPU for 2019 = 650+
Top Recruiters = 110+
Number of Companies Offering Dream Packages = 250+
Highest Stipend Offered = INR 80,000/-
Highest placement package = INR 42 LPA
2500+ Offers (placement/internship) were extended to LPU students by 20 of Fortune-500 companies
2000+ LPU students pursuing successful careers abroad in different countries like the USA, UK, Canada, Australia, etc.





LPU Salary Trends Analysis
Over the past 3-years, LPU has seen a rise in the highest salary being offered to the students of this college as clearly visible in the salary trends table mentioned below:

In 2019=42 LPA
In 2018=28 LPA
In 2017=20.34 LPA
In 2016=20 LPA.




LPU latest update:
LPU saw participation from over 650 companies in recent 2020 placements and saw a great jump in the highest package that reached 42 LPA.The highest stipend also touched Rs 80,000 for the final placements 2020. With a track record of 100% placements for most of its courses, the final placement session of LPU witnessed high salary packages offered by top-notch companies for 2018. As per the university officials, students of LPU received the highest number of appointment letters in the region. Keeping up with its high standards, over 550 national and international companies visited the campus this year including Hewlett Packard, Amazon, Abbott, IBM, Cognizant Technology Solutions, Google and Microsoft. The placements were segregated as dream packages and bulk recruiters. Apart from the final placements, a number of students were also hired for internship opportunities. Some of the top companies that offered internships include Cognizant, Microsoft, Infosys and Morgan Stanley.




Normally, the campus placement season begins at the pre-final/final semester. It commences in the month of July and goes on till the end of the academic year.



The eligibility criteria to participate in the campus placements is mentioned below:
• 60% throughout (10th, 12th, UG/PG)
• No standing arrears
• Students with standing arrears (Maximum-02) only will be considered as per the company's discretion
• Students opting for placements will be given LOR (Letter of Recommendation) for higher studies except the students getting placed in core/dream companies.



International companies visiting the campus are Voltas Engineering, Wilmar International, Must Garments, Diyar Infotech, P and O Cruise, Hettich, Al Thiqa Restaurant, Zamil .


LPU Courses Offered undergraduate and postgraduate degrees in
Engineering (B.Tech, B.Tech+M.Tech,M.Tech)
Medical	(BPT,B.Pharm.+MPT, M.Pharm.)
Management (BBA, BHMCT, MBA)
Science	(B.Sc.,	M.Sc.)
Commerce (B.Com., M.Com)
IT (BCA, MCA)
Law (BA+LLB., BBA+LLB, LLB,LLM)
Architecture (B.Arch, B.Plan + M.Arch, M.Plan.)
Arts (B.A, B.Ed., BFA, M.A, M.Ed.).





LPU Architecture Courses details
LPU offers the B.Arch program at the UG level and M.Arch program at the PG level.
Eligibility:Candidates applying to B.Arch program must pass 10+2 with a minimum of 60% marks (English and Mathematics as mandatory subjects) along with valid NATA scores
For those applying to M.Arch program, a Bachelor’s degree with a minimum of 50% marks is mandatory.



LPU Law Courses details
LPU offers BA+L.L.B /BBA+L.L.B/ L.L.B at the undergraduate level and L.L.M at the Postgraduate level
Eligibility:For BA+L.L.B /BBA+L.L.B, the candidate must pass 12th with minimum 60% marks and for L.L.B, 50% in any Bachelor’s Degree
Also, valid scores of CLAT/LSAT or LPUNEST is compulsory
For L.L.M, a Bachelor’s degree with a minimum of 50% marks is mandatory.



LPU Diploma Courses details
LPU offers Diploma in Engineering, Management, Hotel Management & Tourism, Architecture, Fashion Design, Medical Laboratory Sciences and Dual Program Diploma in Engineering, Architecture, Fashion Design, Medical Laboratory Sciences
Eligibility:For Diploma, the candidates must pass 10+2 with a minimum of 50% aggregate marks
For Dual Program Diploma, the candidates must pass 10th with a minimum of 50% aggregate marks.


LPU Ph.D. Admissions details
LPU offers a Ph.D. degree in fifty-two specializations at the Doctoral level. Minimum Eligibility to apply is a Master’s degree in the relevant discipline with minimum 55% marks The courses at the Research level are offered on both a Full-Time and Part-Time basis
Candidates applying to the Ph.D. courses need to appear for LPUNEST (National Entrance and Scholarship Test). The final selection will be made after the interview rounds based on the results of LPUNEST
Key Points: Candidates who have qualified UGC (NET/ JRF) / CSIR / (NET /JRF) / ICAR (JRF/SRF) / SLET / GATE / GPAT/ holds Teacher Fellowship or passed M.Phil. program are exempted from LPUNEST.



NOTE:Candidates taking admission in LPU has to appear in LPUNEST (University Entrance Test) for certain courses if they have not appeared in any National Tests.
LPU Application Fees
Online Mode
Cost of Application form and Soft copy of LPUNEST Kit is ₹800 (for Boys) and ₹500 (for Girls)
Cost of Application form and Printed LPUNEST Kit is ₹1000 (for Boys) and ₹700 (for Girls)
For online application, the Applicant should have an Online Banking facility through Net banking/ Debit card/ Credit card
Offline Mode
Applicant may obtain LPUNEST Kit from University Campus or any other prescribed place by paying cash
Cost of Application form and Printed LPUNEST Kit is ₹800 (for Boys) and ₹500 (for Girls).


